Digital Technology Machine health monitor April 3, 2013 1 Minute Related Content The new, low-cost SKF Machine Condition Indicator aims to save plant operators time and money by monitoring machines not usually checked on a regular basis. “It’s as simple as the ‘check engine’ warning light in a car,” says Torsten Bark, product line manager at SKF Condition Monitoring Center, San Diego. “Its LEDs alert the predictive maintenance team to do a root-cause analysis on the machine to determine what kind of problem might be affecting its performance.” This vibration- and temperature-monitoring device is designed for rotating machinery with constant operating conditions. Velocity measurements keep track of overall machine health and may highlight potential problems relating to misalignment and imbalance, while enveloped acceleration measurements help detect possible degradation of the bearing condition. The battery-operated device can be used indoors or outdoors, in almost any industry where rotating machines are used. Related Links SKF Machine Condition Indicator Share the article Credits The SKF Evolution Team Tags Condition monitoring Digitization Machinery and equipment Maintenance Reliability Contact SKF Related Content Engineering Competence SKF and NREL work to improve wind turbine reliability SKF has entered a three-year collaboration with the US Department of Energy’s National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL) to study the performance of [...] Condition monitoring , Engineering Competence , Manufacturing , Wind , Digital Technology Launch of Enlight Centre The SKF Enlight Centre is a first-of-its-kind, asset based (as opposed to measurement focused) machine health monitoring system, featuring a [...] Digitization , Engineering tools , Monitoring and diagnostics , Archive Leif Edvinsson A man who measures intangiblesLeif Edvinsson is a financial visionary. The 55-year-old Swede invented the concept of intellectual capital – a [...] Industry , Keep me updated Want to learn more about what is driving change in the engineering world? EVOLUTION helps you to stay up to date with emerging trends as well as the latest technology. Sign up for EVOLUTION updates to receive new content directly to your inbox. Sign up